chore: Prep 0.15.9 (#2325)
paradedb/paradedb: docs/changelog/0.15.9.mdx

---
title: 0.15.9
---

## Deprecation Notice 🗄️

- As of this release, we have deprecated `pg_search` support for PostgreSQL 13. This decision was taken to enable our team to better serve our
  existing customers on other PostgreSQL major versions and in anticipation of the upcoming release of PostgreSQL 18 later this year and subsequent
  deprecation of PostgreSQL 13 later this year.

> - As of April 2, 2025, we will be deprecating `pg_analytics, our extension for reading data from external data lakes into Postgres. The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- On April 2, 2025, we will be deprecating `pg_analytics`, our extension for reading data from external data lakes into Postgres. The
```

`pg_analytics`repository will be archived and will no longer be maintained. The extension will be removed from our Dockerfile and Helm
charts. This decision was made because our work on Postgres analytics is being done in our primary extension,`pg_search`. Additionally,

>   while pg_analytics was an exciting proof of concept, there now exist other tools in the ecosystem that can be used to read from object stores,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  while `pg_analytics` was an exciting proof of concept, there now exist other tools in the ecosystem that can be used to read from object stores,
```

  and we would like to help consolidate usage around those tools rather than compete with them.

## Performance Improvements 🚀

> - We have significantly improved write throughput by optimizing our segment merge policy. As a result, we deprecated the

Reviewer 2: We didn't deprecate these settings, we flat out removed them.  Their continued existence in someone's postgresql.conf will mean nothing to us as of this release.

Author: done!

  `paradedb.max_mergeable_segment_size` and `paradedb.segment_merge_scale_factor` settings, which are no longer necessary
  under this new merge policy. We instead introduced a new index `WITH` option, `layer_sizes`, which which defaults to 100KB,
  1MB, 100MB, but can be set by the user either at `CREATE INDEX` time or later by `ALTER INDEX`.
- We added support for concurrent merging, which further contributes to write throughput improvements. As a result, we removed

>   the `paradedb.is_merging()` function. We instead introduced the `paradedb.merge_info()`and`paradedb.vacuum_info()` functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  the `paradedb.is_merging()` function. We instead introduced the `paradedb.merge_info()` and `paradedb.vacuum_info()` functions.
```

`pg_analytics`repository will be archived and will no longer be maintained. The extension will be removed from our Dockerfile and Helm
charts. This decision was made because our work on Postgres analytics is being done in our primary extension,`pg_search`. Additionally,
  while pg_analytics was an exciting proof of concept, there now exist other tools in the ecosystem that can be used to read from object stores,
  and we would like to help consolidate usage around those tools rather than compete with them.

## Performance Improvements 🚀

- We have significantly improved write throughput by optimizing our segment merge policy. As a result, we deprecated the
  `paradedb.max_mergeable_segment_size` and `paradedb.segment_merge_scale_factor` settings, which are no longer necessary
  under this new merge policy. We instead introduced a new index `WITH` option, `layer_sizes`, which which defaults to 100KB,
  1MB, 100MB, but can be set by the user either at `CREATE INDEX` time or later by `ALTER INDEX`.
- We added support for concurrent merging, which further contributes to write throughput improvements. As a result, we deprecated

>   the `paradedb.is_merging()1 function. We instead introduced the `paradedb.merge_info()`and`paradedb.vacuum_info()` functions.

Reviewer 3: Typo.
```suggestion
  the `paradedb.is_merging()` function. We instead introduced the `paradedb.merge_info()`and`paradedb.vacuum_info()` functions.
```
